# Gemini ASGI Message Format

This document describes the ASGI message format for the Gemini protocol. See the ASGI specification for more general information on ASGI.

=> https://asgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/specs/main.html ASGI Specification

## Gemini Connection Scope

Gemini connections have a single-request connection scope. This means that your application will be called at the start of the request, and will last until the end of that specific request.

If you hold a response open for long-polling or similar, the connection scope will persist until the response closes from either the client or server side.

The connection scope information passed in `scope` contains:

* `type` (*str*) -- `"gemini"`
* `url` (*str*) -- The full URL of the request (e.g. `gemini://example.com/foo?bar=baz`)
* `scheme` (*str*) -- The URL scheme (e.g. `gemini`)
* `netloc` (*str*) -- The network location portion of the URL (e.g. `example.com:1965`)
* `path` (*str*) -- The path portion of the URL (e.g. `/foo`)
* `query` (*str*) -- The query string portion of the URL (e.g. `bar=baz`)
* `root_path` (*str*) -- The root path this application is mounted at
* `client` (*Iterable[str, int]*) -- The client address and port
* `server` (*Iterable[str, int]*) -- The server address and port

## Response Start - `send` event

Sent by the application to start sending a response to the client. Needs to be followed by at least one response content message.

Keys:

* `type` (*str*) -- `"gemini.response.start"`
* `status` (*int*) -- The status code of the response (range 10-69)
* `header` (*str*) -- The response meta-information (e.g. `text/gemini`)

## Response Body - `send` event

Continues sending a response to the client. Protocol servers must flush any data passed to them into the send buffer before returning from a send call. If more_body is set to False, and the server is not expecting Response Trailers this will complete the response.

Keys:

* `type` (*str*) -- `"gemini.response.body"`
* `body` (*bytes*) -- The response content
* `more_body` (*bool*) -- Whether there is more response content to follow. If False, the response is complete.

## Disconnected Client - `send` exception

If the client disconnects before the response is complete, the server should raise a server-specific subclass of `OSError`.

## Disconnect - `receive` event

Sent by the server when the client disconnects.

Keys:

* `type` (*str*) -- `"gemini.disconnect"`
